All right, this is part two
of Building the Tour Page Detail Page.
And we left off the last video
after building this Quick Facts part here
using some mixins, right?
And so next up it's time to build
this part here of the guides.
Now we don't know beforehand how many tour guides
there actually are on each tour.
And so just like on the overview page,
here we need to have another loop
to basically loop through all the guides
that are associated with a certain tour.
So, let's do that.
And right now we actually have these three elements.
So these three box, one for each guide.
But as we just said, that's not how we want it to work.
So let's get rid of these two and then create a loop here,
which in each iteration will create a box,
so an element like this.
And that should be fairly easy.
So again, we use each
and then the name of the variable in the current iteration,
in, and then the array that we want to loop through.
And so that's tour.guides.
Right?
So,
where is that?
Yeah, so here is our array of guides.
Which of course, in the database will then be populated
with the corresponding users and not just the IDs, right?
So now we need to indent all of this here.
And so each of these guides here
will basically be a user document.
So let's quickly check that out in Compass
because we don't have that kind of data in our JSON document
because, of course, the population only happens
behind the scenes using Mongos, right?
So each of the guides is a user.
And so what we want is the name and the photo.
So here we want the photo, of course.
Which is, in this page,
at images/users and then the name of the user photo.
So guide.photo.
Which is here, again, the variable name
in the current iteration.
Then here I don't know why it says Lead guide,
but let's actually put the name of the person here.
So guide.name.
Then here we want the guide's name again,
.name.
And then we also want the label.
And so basically that will be
Lead guide when it's lead guide
and simply tour guide when it's a regular guide.
Now let me show you what happens
when we just put the role here.
So remember that role is the property
where we say if a user is a guide
or a lead guide or even an admin.
Okay?
So, again, let's for now see what happens
when we just put it like this.
And with that we should be ready to actually test it.
Let's give it a save.
And here we go.
So we have the three photos, the names,
but then here the guide role
doesn't really look good, right?
So remember how, in fact, we want to say lead guide
and tour guide.
Okay, and so now it's time to use a conditional.
Now pug actually has conditionals built in,
but they are really simple and we can't
do a lot of stuff with them.
For example, they don't even allow us
to test for equality, for example.
But, the good thing is that we can
actually still use JavaScript for that.
And so again, we use some unbuffered code for that.
So with the dash syntax and then we can
use a regular JavaScript if here.
So again, as if we were just writing JavaScript.
And so guide.role and now we can test and say
if it's a lead-guide.
Well then here we want to say
Lead guide, okay?
And let's put another one here
and say if the role is just guide,
well, then we want Tour guide.
And so this is how we use a JavaScript if write inside
of pug and then combine it with a pug output like this.
All right?
So, let's see.
And indeed, that is much nicer.
Okay.
Let's get rid of this empty space here
and move on to the next one,
which is the description box.
So first up here in the heading
we actually also have the name of the tour.
So this here is the name of the tour,
and so let's create a template string,
and in there let's put tour.name.
I thought that would work.
But it doesn't.
This only works in JavaScript.
Okay, and actually I just remembered
that we also want to have the tour right in the main title.
So, right here actually.
Okay, so let's do that.
Okay.
But anyway, let's move down here
and create these paragraphs.
Now as you see we actually have
two paragraphs here for this text.
So let's just take a look at how we have it here
in the description.
And as you see, we of course only have one big string.
But we have it in the middle divided
with these new line characters.
All right?
And so what we're gonna do is to split the string
by the new line character.
Okay?
So that's easy, right?
So, unbuffered code to write JavaScript.
Paragraphs equals tour.description.split
by the new line character.
And so this will now create an array.
So paragraphs is an array,
where each of the element is basically one paragraph.
Okay?
And so now all we need to do is to loop
through all of these paragraphs and print their content.
So each p, let's say,
in paragraphs will be p.description_text
equal to the current paragraph, which is p.
So, simple right?
Let's check that out.
And we cannot really see if it's different
because I just used this blind text here.
But I can tell you that this here
should be the correct text.
And if we go to the forest hiker tour,
actually here in Compass,
so where is that?
Right here.
So if we go here to the description
and try to edit that,
so let's just add another new line character here.
Then let's update and then we should see a new paragraph
popping up somewhere here.
Let's change that.
And that didn't go so well.
I'm not sure why.
I never tried to do it,
so what I just did was the first time that I tried it.
So I'm not sure what went wrong here.
Maybe we really just need to create a new line
by hitting enter,
but that didn't really work out either.
So let's see if we actually have
the new line character here.
And maybe it's this one here.
Well, but never mind, just trust me on this.
And now our new line is still there,
what's happening?
All right, here we go, let's update it.
All right, now our other new line that we had here before
also kind of disappeared, but never mind.
I guess I just shouldn't have used
Compass in order to edit this text here.
Okay?
Anyway, let's now move on to the images.
And right now we don't see them here,
but this is how it's supposed to look like, okay?
So we have three images here
displaying side-by-side like this.
And so these are actually the images that are
somewhere here.
So yeah, in the images field
we have this array of these three images.
So once more we're going to use a loop
in order to loop through them.
So, simple enough.
So, each image in tour.images.
And so for each of them we want to create this.
So here the source.
And that's image/tours, actually.
And then the name of the current image,
which is image of course.
And then here in the alt text we have
actually the number of the tour,
and more importantly also here in the CSS class name.
And so you see that the next one
has that image two and image three.
Okay?
So how are we going to do that?
Well, in a pug loop we can
actually define a second variable.
And that second variable is then going to be the index.
So let's call that i, very simply.
And so that is a zero-based index,
which is going to be zero for the first element
and one and two for the other two elements.
And so let's first start by putting that there.
So that is i, which is the index, plus 1,
because we want this to be 1 and not zero.
And now this part here is a bit trickier,
because we cannot use this syntax,
and we can also not use the other interpolation syntax
right here in the class name.
And so instead what we're going to do is to copy this,
and actually define it as a class attribute.
Okay, and so that is exactly the same.
But here we can then use a template string
in order to then fill that one here.
So i + 1.
All right, let's get rid of this.
And let's test it.
Whoa, something's not right here.
So, we have our images, but they do not look correct.
But the class name is actually right.
And also you see it here applied.
But for some reason it didn't find these images.
Or actually it did.
Down here it says that it didn't.
Ah, but these are actually other images.
But these are some other ones that are a bit further down.
Anyway, what I guess is not correct here
is that this image should be inside of this picture box,
and so I guess something in our indentation here is wrong.
And yeah, indeed that is.
So you see this image is at the same level
as this div element.
So of course, there is a missing indentation.
All right.
And so that should now be fixed.
And here we go.
All right.
So that, just to see that this was the problem.
Now indeed the picture is inside of the picture box.
So great.
Next up is the map.
Which remember, I'm going to leave for the next lecture,
so that for now we can worry about
putting the tour reviews here in this element.
Okay.
And so, again, we're now moving on to this part here.
Now where are these reviews actually coming from.
Well, remember how here
in the viewController we did populate
the reviews field with the actual review data.
And so right now we have tours.reviews,
which is an array of all the reviews.
And so as you can probably guess,
we are now going to create yet another loop
right here inside this review element.
So, each review in tour.reviews.
And then in each of them we will have this review card.
All right.
Now this here is a lot of code,
which is kind of distracting us here from our main content.
And so let's again, actually create a mixin here.
All right.
So,
let's put it here at the top.
And you'll see why in a second.
So reviewCard.
And in here we pass the review itself.
All right.
And now we actually need to fix these indentations.
And instead of doing it manually,
remember, I'm going to use
that VS Code package that we have.
And so command shift p or control shift p on Windows
and then Beautify pug.
And so that fixes it.
And so now we need to create this review here
based on the data.
But before we do that, let's actually call the mixin here
in each iteration of the review.
So +reviewCard with the current review, right?
So, let's just take a look at what
a review actually looks like.
And we have the reviews here.
But indeed, they will not be really useful
because the user is not populated here.
So let's actually go to a Postman
and take a look at the final populated reviews in there.
So let's say get review on tour.
Because that will then be a complete review.
So we have the review field, the rating, and then the user.
And what we're interested in here
is then user.name and user.photo.
All right, and so the username will be review.user.name.
Right?
So review.user.name.
And so all of this is necessary because of course
we have now multiple datasets related to one each other
and so with the populate function
they are all now kind of nested one into each other.
So let's use his name here as well.
All right.
And then here
we will not use his name.
Oh and I forgot the interpolation,
and then here it's the photo.
All right.
Here it's going to be the description.
And that's actually review.review, I believe.
So, yeah.
So review.review.
And this is the easy part and the hard part next
is going to be to display the actual rating,
because we have to display one of these elements here
for each of the number of stars that the review has.
So a five-star review needs all of these five stars.
But a four-star review only needs four of them
and then plus that we also want a gray star.
So basically to say four out of five, okay?
But let's first take a look, if this is actually working.
So everything except the rating.
So let's reload, and indeed, here we are,
with the users, then name, and the review text itself.
And let's now take care of actually displaying
the rating as well.
So what we're gonna do here is
to print the amount of stars in a loop.
So there are five possible stars
and so we loop from one to five.
Then in each star we test if the tour rating
is higher or equal to the current star.
And if so, we print a green star,
which stands for an actual star.
And if not, it is a gray star.
So again, which is just an inexistent star.
For example, to show three out of five, okay?
And that probably sounds a bit abstract,
so let's just implement it.
So each star in.
And now we don't have an array yet,
and so we simply create it.
So 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5,
which are all the possible stars.
Next up, let's copy this here.
And now the difference between a green star and a gray one
is that the green has the active modifier here,
and the gray one has inactive.
And so we will change that with a template string, okay?
And so just like before, we actually need this class name
as a class attribute here.
All right.
Then this should also be here.
Let's get rid of this.
And so now let's do that test that we just mentioned.
And again, the output of that will be that this year
is either active or inactive.
And so let's put some JavaScript right at this point.
And so what we're going to do here
is to test if the review.rating,
which is where the rating is stored,
is greater or equal than the current star.
So basically we're writing a turnery operator here.
And so if it is, then here we want to say,
active,
and if not,
then inactive.
And this looks kind of weird, I know.
So let's just exemplify that with a simple example.
So let's say that we have three stars out of five, okay?
So in the first iteration, star is one.
And so one is of course less than three.
And so the first star should, of course,
be a green one, and so that's why here we put out active,
which will then result in reviews_star--active.
Okay?
Then the same thing with the second and the third star.
So at that point we have three green stars.
But the fourth and the fifth one should be gray.
Okay?
And so in the fourth iteration here star is four.
So the test is is three greater than four?
No it's false and so it's inactive.
And so that will then be a gray star,
and the same thing for the last, so the fifth star.
All right, so let's test that.
And actually we cannot test it here,
because this forest hiker
has a perfect five out of five rating
and so all the reviews are five stars.
And so we need to come here to all tours.
And while this link is not really working just yet,
so you see it only edits like this,
this hash here.
And so let's quickly actually go ahead and fix that.
And that is in the header, so right here.
But we don't want that.
We simply want to go to our root page.
So that's just the slash.
So reload.
And now down there in the link you see
that that's exactly what we have.
And so indeed, we get back to our overview page.
So let's go to a page with a lower average.
And so that's the sport lover.
Let's see.
And of course you see that all the data
is now correct for this specific tour.
So again you see this 3.9 average.
You see all these different tour guides,
the different pictures,
and you see all the reviews.
And also you see that the stars are actually working.
So this first review is a five-star review.
And so you see five, four, one,
and then a bunch of four-star reviews down here.
Okay, so, this was a bit more confusing, this part,
but we still managed to get it work, right?
Now one thing that I wanted to just show you
is that we can actually also export,
basically a mixin into its separate file.
And so let's just copy this
and create a new mixin here,
or actually a new file.
And so since we're then going to include it
I will again prefix this with this underscore.
And let's call it reviewCard.pug.
Then paste it here.
And all the indentation is still correct,
and now all we need to do is to say,
include
_reviewCard.
And so if we try that now,
it should still work, which it does.
All right.
So we wrote a lot of code so far
and we're almost done.
All that's left to do is this call to action section.
And here all we really need to change
is this duration here.
So we have this nice slogan like,
10 days.
1 adventure.
Infinite memories.
All right?
But we actually need to replace the number of days
so that it's correct for this particular tour.
So let's create a template string for that.
So tour.duration.
And then also here we have some of the tour images, okay?
So let's do that as well.
So that's image.tours, or /tours and then slash
tour.images.
And remember that this is an array,
and I will simply use the first and the second element.
Or actually the second and the third
'cause I found out that these usually
look a bit better in the situation.
So,
let's copy that.
Put that here.
Oh and we're missing the closing bracket here.
And let's just add some alternative text.
Tour picture.
All right.
And I think that's actually it.
So just one last try.
You see that here it's blank right now.
But now indeed,
we have the same images here.
So this should be number two.
But still, now it says 14 days,
and so all of that is correct now.
Awesome.
That's fantastic.
That was a lot of work,
but I think it really paid off.
This page, I think looks absolutely fantastic.
It's really stunning.
And so now everything is connected.
So on each tour we can go back to all the tours
and take a look at all the other ones.
Let's see the park camper.
The park camper tour.
All the details.
All the different guides, images,
their reviews, and indeed these different images.
Great.
So you see this blank hole here in the middle of our page.
And so that's where the map is going to be next,
and so let's do that, actually right now
in the next lecture.